#319 Updated TE User Guide (#320)
exasol/transformers-extension: doc/user_guide/user_guide.md

   7. Text Translation
   8. Zero-Shot Text Classification

## Table of Contents

> * [Introduction](#introduction)

Author: I checked the links, `[Prediction UDFs](#prediction-udfs)` was broken, which I fixed.

> * [Introduction](#introduction)

Reviewer: It might be fine as is, but in comparing this to the PyCharm auto-generated TOC, you see there are some level differences now. I get that we likely don't want all sub-levels, etc.

But for instance, listed in your TOC, you have `[Model Downloader UDF](#model-downloader-udf)`, which is a subsection of a not listed section `[Store Models in BucketFS](#store-models-in-bucketfs)`

```md
<!-- TOC -->
* [User Guide](#user-guide)
  * [Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)
  * [Introduction](#introduction)
  * [Getting Started](#getting-started)
    * [Exasol DB](#exasol-db)
    * [BucketFS Connection](#bucketfs-connection)
      * [Parameters of the Address Part of the Connection Object](#parameters-of-the-address-part-of-the-connection-object)
      * [Custom Certificates and Certificate Authorities](#custom-certificates-and-certificate-authorities)
    * [Huggingface token](#huggingface-token)
  * [Setup](#setup)
    * [Install the Python Package](#install-the-python-package)
      * [Pip](#pip)
      * [Download and Install the Python Wheel Package](#download-and-install-the-python-wheel-package)
      * [Build the project yourself](#build-the-project-yourself)
    * [Deploy the Extension to the Database](#deploy-the-extension-to-the-database)
      * [The Pre-built Language Container](#the-pre-built-language-container)
      * [List of Options](#list-of-options)
  * [Common UDF Parameters](#common-udf-parameters)
  * [Store Models in BucketFS](#store-models-in-bucketfs)
    * [Model Downloader UDF](#model-downloader-udf)
      * [Name Server](#name-server)
      * [Running the UDF](#running-the-udf)
      * [Selecting the Task Type](#selecting-the-task-type)
    * [Model Uploader Script](#model-uploader-script)
      * [Installation via a Python Function](#installation-via-a-python-function)
  * [Using Prediction UDFs](#using-prediction-udfs)
    * [Sequence Classification for Single Text UDF](#sequence-classification-for-single-text-udf)
    * [Sequence Classification for Text Pair UDF](#sequence-classification-for-text-pair-udf)
    * [Question Answering UDF](#question-answering-udf)
    * [Masked Language Modelling UDF](#masked-language-modelling-udf)
    * [Text Generation UDF](#text-generation-udf)
    * [Token Classification UDF](#token-classification-udf)
    * [Text Translation UDF](#text-translation-udf)
    * [Zero-Shot Text Classification UDF](#zero-shot-text-classification-udf)
<!-- TOC -->
```

> * [Introduction](#introduction)

Author: I used the TOC provided by you / above / pycharm.

## Introduction

This Exasol Extension provides UDFs for interacting with Hugging Face's Transformers API in order to use pre-trained models on an Exasol Cluster.

> User Defined Functions, UDFs for short, are scripts in various programming languages that can be executed in the Exasol Database. They can be used by the user for more flexibility in data processing. In this Extension we provide multiple UDFs for you to use on your Exasol Database. You can find a more detailed documentation on UDFs [here](https://docs.exasol.com/db/latest/database_concepts/udf_scripts.htm).

Author: :heart:

UDFs and the necessary [Script language Container](https://docs.exasol.com/db/latest/database_concepts/udf_scripts/adding_new_packages_script_languages.htm) are stored in Exasol's file system BucketFS, and we also use this to store the Hugging Face models on the Exasol Cluster.

> More information on The BucketFS can be found [here](https://docs.exasol.com/db/latest/database_concepts/bucketfs/bucketfs.htm).

Author: > think I read somewhere that we prefer more descriptive text than "here" for links

At least, I prefer more descriptive text than "here" for links, yes.

Below is the description of the parameters that need to be passed for On-Prem and SaaS databases.

The distribution of the parameters among those three JSON strings do not matter.

However, we recommend to put secrets like passwords and or access tokens into the `<BUCKETFS_PASSWORD>` part.

#### Parameters of the Adress Part of the Connection Object

`<BUCKET_ADDRESS>` contains various subparameters, e.g.

```sql
{"url": "https://my_cluster_11:6583", "bucket_name": "default", "service_name": "bfsdefault"}
```

The number of subparameters and their names depended on the type of database you are connecting to:

**SaaS Database**:

* `url`: Optional URL of the Exasol SaaS. Defaults to https://cloud.exasol.com.
* `account_id`: SaaS user account ID.
* `database_id`: Database ID.
* `pat`: Personal access token.

**On-Prem Database**:

* `url`: URL of the BucketFS service, e.g. `http(s)://127.0.0.1:2580`.
* `username`: BucketFS username (generally, different from the DB username, e.g. `w` for writing).
* `password`: BucketFS user password.
* `bucket_name`: Name of the bucket in the BucketFS, e.g. `default`.
* `service_name`: Name of the BucketFS service, e.g. `bfsdefault`.

> * `verify`: Optional parameter that can be either a boolean, in which case it controls whether the server's TLS certificate is verified, or a string, in which case it must be a path to a CA bundle to use. Defaults to ``true``.

Author: I updated the user guide and added a link to the [TLS tutorial](https://github.com/exasol/exasol-java-tutorial/blob/main/tls-tutorial/doc/tls_introduction.md#certificates-and-certification-agencies).

Here is an example of a connection object for an On-Prem database.

```sql
CREATE OR REPLACE CONNECTION "MyBucketFSConnection"
    TO '{"url":"https://my_cluster_11:6583", "bucket_name":"default", "service_name":"bfsdefault"}'
    USER '{"username":"wxxxy"}'
    IDENTIFIED BY '{"password":"wrx1t09x9e"}';
```

For more information please check the [Create Connection in Exasol](https://docs.exasol.com/sql/create_connection.htm?Highlight=connection) document.

> #### Custom Certificates and Certificate Authorities

Reviewer 2: for this section, maybe we should add subsections for "upload bundle to on-prem" and "upload bundle to saas"

Author: I agree, see last push for an update.

For using a custom CA bundle you first need to upload it to the BucketFS.

The following command puts a bundle in a single file called `ca_bundle.pem` to the bucket `bucket1` in a subdirectory `tls`:

```Shell
curl -T ca_bundle.pem https://w:w-password@192.168.6.75:1234/bucket1/tls/ca_bundle.pem
```

For more details on uploading files to the BucketFS see the [Exasol documentation](https://docs.exasol.com/db/latest/database_concepts/bucketfs/file_access.htm).

Please use the [Exasol SaaS REST API](https://cloud.exasol.com/openapi/index.html#/Files) for uploading files to the BucketFS on a SaaS database. The CA bundle path should have the following format:

```
/buckets/<service-name>/<bucket-name>/<path-to-the-file-or-directory>
```

For example, if the service name is ``bfs_service1`` and the bundle was uploaded with the above curl command, the path should look like ``/buckets/bfs_service1/bucket1/tls/ca_bundle.pem``. Please note that for the BucketFS on a SaaS database, the service and bucket names are fixed at respectively ``upload`` and ``default``.

> ### Huggingface token

Author: I will have a look.

> ### Huggingface token

Author: My latest check showed all references now consistently being "Hugging Face".

pip install exasol-transformers-extension
```

#### Download and Install the Python Wheel Package

You can also get the wheel from a GitHub release.

* The latest version of the Python package of this extension can be downloaded from the [GitHub Release](https://github.com/exasol/transformers-extension/releases/latest). Please download the following built archive:
  ```buildoutcfg
  exasol_transformers_extension-<version-number>-py3-none-any.whl
  ```

If you need to use a version < 0.5.0, the build archive is called `transformers_extension.whl`.

Then install the packaged transformers-extension project as follows:

```shell
pip install <path/wheel-filename.whl>
```

#### Build the project yourself

> In order to build Transformers Extension yourself, you need to have the [Poetry](https://python-poetry.org/) (>= 2.1.0) package manager installed. Clone the GitHub Repository, and install and build the `transformers-extension` as follows:

Author: Added a link to the repo (although the very README is also part of the repo :slightly_smiling_face:)

| `--token-conn-name`     |           | Name of the [token connection object](#huggingface-token) if required   |
| `--token`               |           | The [Huggingface token](#huggingface-token) if required                 |

The connection objects will not be created if their names are not provided.

## Common UDF Parameters

Many UDFs are using a set of common parameters which are described in this section.

* `device_id`: To run on a GPU, specify the valid cuda device ID. Value `NULL` means use the CPU instead.
* `bucketfs_conn`: The BucketFS connection name.
* `sub_dir`: The directory where the model is stored in the BucketFS.
* `model_name`: The name of the model to use for prediction. You can find the details of the models on the [huggingface models page](https://huggingface.co/models).

## Store Models in BucketFS

Before you can use pre-trained models, the models must be stored in the BucketFS, which can be by one of the following two options:
* O1) The [Model Downloader UDF](#model-downloader-udf) downloads a Hugging Face transformers model directly into the Exasol Database.

> * O2) The [Model Uploader Script](#model-uploader-script) uploads a model to the Database, requiring the model to be downloaded to your local file system in advance.

Author: Thanks for the clarifying discussion.
I updated the PR. 
Please review again.

O2 is required in case you don't want to connect your Exasol Database directly to the internet. Otherwise O1 is the simpler option.

Note that the extension currently only supports the `PyTorch` framework. Please make sure that the selected models are in the `Pytorch` model library section.

### Model Downloader UDF

Using the `TE_MODEL_DOWNLOADER_UDF` below, you can download the desired model from the huggingface hub and upload it to BucketFS.

This requires the Exasol Database to have internet access, since the UDF will download the model from Hugging Face to the Database without saving it somewhere else intermittently.

#### Name Server

If you are using the Exasol DockerDB or an Exasol version 8 setup via [c4](https://docs.exasol.com/db/latest/administration/on-premise/admin_interface/c4.htm), this is not the case by default, and you need to specify a name server. For example, setting `nameserver = 8.8.8.8` will use Google's DNS.

You will need to use [ConfD](https://docs.exasol.com/db/latest/confd/confd.htm) to do this, you can use the [general_settings](https://docs.exasol.com/db/latest/confd/jobs/general_settings.htm) command.

> If you are using the [Integration Test Docker Environment](https://github.com/exasol/integration-test-docker-environment), you can just set the nameserver parameter like this: `--nameserver 8.8.8.8`.

Author: I don't know. 
Technically, "Exasol DockerDB" is not synonym to "ITDE".

> If you are using the [Integration Test Docker Environment](https://github.com/exasol/integration-test-docker-environment), you can just set the nameserver parameter like this: `--nameserver 8.8.8.8`.

Reviewer: Very true :)

| `--[no-]deploy-slc`     | True      | Install SLC as part of the deployment                                   |
| `--[no-]deploy-scripts` | True      | Install scripts as part of the deployment                               |
| `--bucketfs-conn-name`  |           | Name of the [BucketFS connection object](#bucketfs-connection)          |
| `--token-conn-name`     |           | Name of the [token connection object](#huggingface-token) if required   |
| `--token`               |           | The [Huggingface token](#huggingface-token) if required                 |

The connection objects will not be created if their names are not provided.

## Common UDF Parameters

Many UDFs use a set of common parameters:

* `device_id`: To run on a GPU, specify the valid cuda device ID. Value `NULL` means to use the CPU instead.
* `bucketfs_conn`: The BucketFS connection name.
* `sub_dir`: The directory where the model is stored in the BucketFS.
* `model_name`: The name of the model to use for prediction. You can find the details of the models on the [Hugging Face models page](https://huggingface.co/models).

## Store Models in BucketFS

> Before you can use pre-trained models, the models must be stored in the BucketFS, which can done with one of the these two options:

Reviewer: my bad as bad review comment last round
```suggestion
Before you can use pre-trained models, the models must be stored in the BucketFS, which can be done with one of the these two options:
```

### Model Uploader Script

You can invoke the Python script below which downloads the transformer models from The Hugging Face hub to the local filesystem, and uploads it to the BucketFS.

```shell
python -m exasol_transformers_extension.upload_model <options>
```

For information about the available options common to all Exasol extensions please refer to the [documentation][pec-user-guide] in the Exasol Python Extension Common package.

In addition, this command provides the following options:

| Option name      | Comment                                                           |
|------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `--model-name`   | Name of the model, as it's seen in the Huggingface hub            |
| `--task-type`    | See the explanations below                                        |
| `--sub-dir`      | Sub-directory in the BucketFS where this model should be stored   |
| `--token`        | The [Huggingface token](#huggingface-token) if required           |

#### Selecting the Task Type

`--task-type` specifies the type of task you plan to use the model for.

> Some models can be used for multiple types of tasks, but transformers stores different metadata depending on the task of the model, which affects how the model is loaded later. Setting an Incorrect task type, or leaving the task type empty may affect the models performance severely.

Author: I replaced the second occurrence by a reference. 
Thanks for this excellent remark!

    text_data
)
```

* [Common Parameters](#common-udf-parameters):
  * `device_id`
  * `bucketfs_conn`
  * `sub_dir`
  * `model_name`
* Specific parameters:
  * `text_data`: The input text to be classified

> The output presents the input columns passed to the UDF plus additional columns containing the inference results, i.e. the predicted _LABEL_ and its confidence _SCORE_.

Reviewer 2: the rest of the udfs still have the old wording regarding the results. do you want to update those to, or leave them as is? both is fine for me

Author: As we are on it now anyway, I will try to update the docs of the other UDF's, too.

    aggregation_strategy
)
```

* [Common Parameters](#common-udf-parameters):
  * `device_id`
  * `bucketfs_conn`
  * `sub_dir`
  * `model_name`
* Specific parameters:
  * `text_data`: The text to analyze.

>   * `aggregation_strategy`:  The strategy to fuse (or not) tokens based on the model prediction. It is set to `simple` strategy by default, if you supply NULL. Please check [here](https://huggingface.co/docs/transformers/main_classes/pipelines#transformers.TokenClassificationPipeline.aggregation_strategy) for more information.

Author: I replaced all occurrences of "here"

> The inference results are presented by combining with the inputs used when calling this UDF with

Author: I fixed this in the last PR based on the valuable discussion with @MarleneKress79789

  * `max_length`: The maximum total length of the translated text.

The inference results are presented with _TRANSLATION_TEXT_ column, combined with the inputs used when calling this UDF.

In case of any error during model loading or prediction, these new columns are set to `null`, and column _ERROR_MESSAGE_ is set to the stacktrace of the error. For example:

| BUCKETFS_CONN | SUB_DIR | MODEL_NAME | TEXT_DATA | SOURCE_LANGUAGE | TARGET_LANGUAGE | MAX_LENGTH | TRANSLATION_TEXT | ERROR_MESSAGE |
|---------------|---------|------------|-----------|-----------------|-----------------|------------|------------------|---------------|
| conn_name     | dir/    | model_name | context   | English         | German          | 100        | kontext          | None          |
| ...           | ...     | ...        | ...       | ...             | ...             | ...        | ...              | ...           |

### Zero-Shot Text Classification UDF

This UDF simply provide the task of predicting a class that wasn't seen by the model during training.

> The UDF takes candidate labels as a comma-separated string, and generate probability scores prediction for each label.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The UDF takes candidate labels as a comma-separated string and generates probability scores for each predicted label.
```
